.TH TXT2MD 1 "May 2026" "txt2md" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
txt2md \- convert plain text to Markdown
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B txt2md convert
.I input-file
.RI [ flags ]
.br
.B txt2md config
.RB [ \-\-init ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B txt2md
is a command-line tool that automatically converts plain text files to well-formatted Markdown.
It intelligently detects headings, paragraphs, lists, code blocks, blockquotes, tables, and horizontal rules.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B convert \fIinput-file\fP
Convert a text file to Markdown.
.TP
.B config
Manage configuration.
Use
.B \-\-init
to create a default configuration file.
.SH "CONVERT FLAGS"
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output \ \fIstring\fP
Output file path (default: \fI<input-name>.md\fP in current directory).
.TP
.BR \-\-tab-width \ \fIint\fP
Tab width for indentation detection (default 4).
.TP
.BR \-\-pretty
Enable typography beautification (CJK-Latin spacing).
.TP
.BR \-\-style \ \fIstring\fP
Output style:
.I compact
or
.IR spacious
(default "spacious").
.TP
.BR \-\-diff
Show diff between input and output.
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Overwrite existing output file.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recursively convert all .txt files in directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-stdout
Write output to stdout instead of file.
.TP
.BR \-\-rules \ \fIstring\fP
Path to custom rules file (YAML/TOML).
.SH CONFIGURATION
The tool reads configuration from
.B .txt2md.yaml
in the current directory, falling back to
.BR $HOME/.txt2md.yaml .
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a file to Markdown:
.br
.B txt2md convert notes.txt
.PP
Convert and write to a specific output file:
.br
.B txt2md convert notes.txt \-o output.md
.PP
Convert with compact style and typography beautification:
.br
.B txt2md convert notes.txt \-\-style compact \-\-pretty
.PP
Show a diff of the changes:
.br
.B txt2md convert notes.txt \-\-diff
.PP
Recursively convert all .txt files in a directory:
.br
.B txt2md convert ./my-notes/ \-r
.PP
Write output to stdout:
.br
.B txt2md convert notes.txt \-\-stdout
.PP
Create a default configuration file:
.br
.B txt2md config \-\-init
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .txt2md.yaml
Project-level configuration file, located in the current directory.
.TP
.B $HOME/.txt2md.yaml
User-level configuration file, used when no project-level config is found.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pandoc (1),
.BR markdown (1)
